The Command Prompt, PowerShell, and Windows Terminal are all command-line interfaces that allow users to interact with the operating system using text commands. The console is a window that displays the command-line interface.
Here are some differences between them:
Command Prompt: It is a basic command-line interface that has been around since the early days of Windows. It is used to execute simple commands and scripts.
PowerShell: It is a more advanced command-line interface that provides more functionality than the Command Prompt. PowerShell is based on the .NET framework and allows users to execute complex scripts and automate tasks.
Windows Terminal: It is a modern, open-source terminal application that allows users to access multiple command-line interfaces in one window. It supports Command Prompt, PowerShell, and other shells such as Bash and WSL.
the commands are different for each command-line interface. However, many of the basic commands are similar across all three interfaces.
For example, the cd command is used to change the current directory in all three interfaces. However, PowerShell has additional commands that are not available in Command Prompt, such as Get-ChildItem and New-Item .
There are several ways to open Windows Terminal. Here are three methods:
Using the Start menu: Click on the Windows icon on the bottom-left corner of your desktop or press the ⊞ Win key on your keyboard to open the Start menu. Type “Windows Terminal” and click on the app to open it.
Using the Run tool: Press ⊞ Win + R on your keyboard to open the Run tool. Type “wt” and click OK to open Windows Terminal.
Using the Power User menu: Right-click on the Start menu icon or press ⊞ Win + X on your keyboard to open the Power User menu. Click on “Windows Terminal” or “Windows Terminal (Admin)” to open Windows Terminal.
Windows Terminal (Admin) is the same as Windows Terminal, but it runs with administrative privileges. This means that any command or script executed in Windows Terminal (Admin) will have elevated permissions 


most used shortcuts in cmd:
cd 		directory
cd..		back
C:		go to drive C:
del		delete file
dir		show folder contents


{To create a file using windows command prompt (CMD/Terminal/Powershell), there are couple of methods:}
>>> cd. > filename.suffix	(like: cd. > test.txt)
>>> dir				(to ensure that the file has been created)
You can use 'call', 'echo.' or 'break' instead of 'cd.' in the previous script as well.
You can also use the following code in Window Powershell:
>>> New-Item filename.suffix
This creates the file in the current directory, as did the former methods. To specify another location, give the full adress while the last portion of the path will be considered as file name.
To create a folder in cmd, use this code:
>>> mkdir foldername
To delete a folder:
>>> rmdir foldername
To delete a file or bunch of files:
>>> del filename1 filename2 ...
To force delete them:
>>> del/f filename(s)


cmd shortcuts (from website):
cmd command	Description
Basics:
call	calls a batch file from another one
cd	change directory
cls	clear screen
cmd	start command prompt
color	change console color
date	show/set date
dir	list directory content
echo	text output
exit	exits the command prompt or a batch file
find	find files
hostname	display host name
pause	pauses the execution of a batch file and shows a message
runas	start a program as another user
shutdown	shutdown the computer
sort	sort the screen output
start	start an own window to execute a program or command
taskkill	terminate a process or a application
tasklist	display applications and related tasks
time	display/edit the system time
timeout	wait any time
title	set title for prompt
ver	display operating system version
w32tm	setting time synchronisation/time server/time zone
Network:
ftp	transfer files to a FTP server
ftype	display file type and mapping
getmac	display MAC address
ipconfig	display IP network settings
netsh	configure/control/display network components
netstat	display TCP/IP connections and status
nslookup	query the DNS
pathping	test the connection to a specific IP address
ping	pings the network
route	display network routing table, add static routes
systeminfo	displays computer-specific properties and configurations
telnet	establish Telnet connection
tftp	transfer files to a TFTP server
tracert	trace routes similar to patchping
Files:
attrib	display file attributes
comp	compare file contents
compact	display/change file compression
copy / xcopy	copy files
diskcomp	compare content of two floppy disks
diskcopy	copy floppy disc to another one
erase / del	delete one or more files
expand	extract files
fc	copare files and display the differences
mkdir	create a new directory
move	move/rename files
rename	rename files
replace	replace files
rmdir / rd	delete directory
tree	display folder structure graphically
type	display content of text files
Media:
chkdsk	check volumes
chkntfs	display/change volume check at startup
defrag	defragment media
diskpart	volume management
driverquery	display installed devices and their properties
format	format volumes
label	change volume name
mode	configure interfaces/devices
mountvol	assign/delete drive mountpoints
verify	monitoring whether volumes are written correctly
vol	show volume description and serial numbers of the HDDs
Miscellaneous:
for	for loop
gpresult	display group policies
gpupdate	update group policies
perfmon	start performance monitor
prompt	change command prompt
reg	add/read/import/export registry entries